This is a LibriVox recording. All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information visit www.librivox.org.
Treasure Island by Robert Louis Stevenson. Chapter 29. The Black Spot Again.
The Council of Buccaneers had lasted some time when one of them re-entered the house,
and with a repetition of the same salute which had in my eyes an
ironical air, begged for a moment's loan of the torch.
Silver briefly agreed, and this emissary retired again, leaving us together in the dark.
There's a breeze coming, Jim, said Silver, who had by this time adopted quite a friendly
and familiar tone. I turned to the loophole nearest me and looked out.
The embers of the great fire had so far burned themselves out and now glowed so low and duskily
that I understood why these conspirators desired a torch.
About halfway down the slope to the stockade they were collected in a group. One held the light,
another was on his knees in their midst, and I saw the blade of an open knife shine in his hand
with varying colors in the moon and torchlight.
The rest were all somewhat stooping as though watching the maneuvers of this last.
I could just make out that he had a book as well as a knife in his hand,
and was still wondering how anything so incongruous had come in their possession
when the kneeling figure rose once more to his feet and the whole party began to move together
towards the house.
Here they come, said I, and I returned to my former position, for it seemed beneath my dignity
that they should find me watching them.
Well, let them come, lad, let them come, said Silver cheerfully. I've still a shot in my locker.
The door opened and the five men standing huddled together just inside pushed one of
their number forward. In any other circumstances it would have been comical to see his slow advance,
hesitating as he set down each foot, but holding his closed right hand in front of him.
Step up, lad, cried Silver. I won't eat you. Hand it over, lover. I know the rules I do.
I won't hurt your deputation.
Thus encouraged, the buccaneer stepped forward more briskly, and having passed something to Silver
from hand to hand, slipped yet more smartly back again to his companions.
The seacook looked at what had been given him.
The black spot, I thought so, he observed. Where might ye have got the paper? Why,
look here now. This ain't lucky. You've gone and cut this out of a Bible. What fools cut a Bible.
Ah, there, said Morgan, there. What did I say? No good'll come of that, I said.
Well, you've about fixed it now among you,
continued Silver. You'll all swing now, I reckon. What soft-headed lubber had a Bible?
It was Dick, said one. Dick was it? Then Dick can get to prayers, said Silver.
He's seen his slice of luck as Dick, and you may lay to that.
But here the long man with the yellow eyes struck in.
Belay that talk, Silver, he said. This crew has tipped you the black spot in full counsel,
as in duty bound. Just you turn it over, as in duty bound, and see what's wrote there.
Then you can talk. Thank ye, George, replied the sea cook. You've always was brisk for business,
and has the rules at heart, George, as I'm pleased to see. Well, what is it, anyway?
Ah, deposed. That's it, is it? Very pretty wrote, to be sure. Like print, I swear.
Your hand aright, George? Why, you was getting quite a leadin' man in this here crew.
You'll be captain next, I shouldn't wonder. Just oblige me with that torch again, will you?
This pipe don't draw. Come now, said George, you don't fool this crew no more. You're a funny man
by your account, but you're over now, and you'll maybe step down off that barrel and help vote.
I thought you said you knowed the rules, returned Silver contemptuously. Least ways if you don't,
I do, and I wait here, and I'm still your captain, mind, till you outs with your grievances,
and I reply, in the meantime, your black spot ain't worth a biscuit. After that, we'll see.
Oh, replied George, you don't be under no kind of apprehension. We're all square we are. First,
you've made a hash of this cruise. You'll be a bold man to say no to that. Second, you let
the enemy out of this here trap for nothin'. Why did they want out? I don't know, but it's
pretty plain they wanted it. Third, you wouldn't let us go with them upon the march. Oh, we see
through you, John Silver. You want to play booty, that's what's wrong with you. And then, fourth,
there's this here boy. Is that all? asked Silver quietly.
Enough, two, retorted George. We'll all swing and sundry for your bungling.
Well, now, look here. I'll answer these far pints one after another, I'll answer them.
I made a hash of this cruise, did I? Well, now, you all know what I wanted, and you all know if
that had been done that we'd have been aboard the Hispagnola this night as ever was, every man of
us alive and fit and full of good plum duff, and the treasure in the hold of her by thunder.
Well, who crossed me? Who forced my hand as was the lawful captain? Who tipped me the black spot
the day we landed and began this dance? Ah, it's a fine dance, I'm with you there, and looks mighty
like a hornpipe in a rope's end at Execution Dock, my London town it does. But who done it? Why,
it was Anderson and Hans and you, George Mary, and you're the last aboveboard of that same
meddling crew, and you have the Davy Jones insolence to have up and stand for captain over me,
you that sank the lot of us? By the powers, but this tops the stiffest yarn to nothing.
Silver paused, and I could see by the faces of George and his late comrades that these words had
been said in vain. That's for number one, cried the accused, wiping the sweat from his brow,
for he had been talking with the vehemence that shook the house. Why, I give you my word,
I'm sick to speak to you. You've neither sense nor memory, and I leave it to fancy where your
mother's was that let you come to see. See, gentlemen of fortune, I reckon Taylor's is your
aid. Go on, John, said Morgan, speak up to the others. Ah, the others, returned John.
They're a nice lot, ain't they? You say this cruise is bungled? Ah, by gum, if you could
understand how bad it's bungled, you would see. We're that near the gibbet that my neck's stiff
with thinking on it. You've seen them, maybe, hanged in chains, birds about them, seamen
pointing them out as they go down with the tide. Who's that, says one? That, why, that's John
Silver. I knowed him well, said another. And you can hear the chains a-jangle as you go about and
reach for the other buoy. Now, that's about where we are, every mother's son of us, thanks to him
and Hans and Anderson and other ruination fools of you. And if you want to know about number four,
and that boy, why, shiver me timbers, isn't he a hostage? Are we going to waste a hostage?
No, not us. He might be our last chance and I wouldn't wonder. Kill that boy, not me, mates.
And number three, ah, well, there's a deal to say to number three. Maybe you don't count it
nothing to have a real college doctor to see you every day, you, John, with your head broke, or you,
George, Mary, that had the og shakes about you not six hours ago, and has your eyes the color of
lemon peel to this same moment of the clock. And maybe, perhaps, you didn't know there was a consort
coming either. But there is, and not so long till then, and we'll see who'll be glad to have a
hostage when it comes to that. And as for number two, and why I made a bargain, well, you came
crawling on your knees to me to make it. On your knees you came. You was downhearted and you'd have
starved, too, if I hadn't. But that's a trifle. You look there, that's why. And he cast down upon
the floor a paper that I instantly recognized, none other than the chart on yellow paper with
the three red crosses that I had found in the oilcloth at the bottom of the captain's chest.
Why the doctor had given it to him was more than I could fancy.
But if it were inexplicable to me, the appearance of the chart was incredible to the surviving
mutineers. They leaped upon it like cats upon a mouse. It went from hand to hand, one tearing
it from another. And by the oaths and the cries and the childish laughter with which they
accompanied their examination, you would have thought not only were they fingering the very gold,
but were at sea with it besides in safety. Yes, said one, that's flint, sure enough.
J.F. and a score below with the clove hitched to it. So he done ever.
Mighty pretty, said George, but how are we to get away with it and us no ship?
Silver suddenly sprang up and supporting himself with a hand against the wall.
Now I give you warning, George, he cried. One more word of your sauce and I'll call you down
and fight you. How? Why, how do I know? You would ought to tell me that. You and the rest
that lost me my schooner with your interference burn you. But not in you you can't. You ain't got
the invention of a cockroach. But civil you can speak and shall, George Mary, you may lay to that.
Now that's fair enough, said the old man Morgan.
Fair, I reckon so, said the sea cook. You lost the ship, I found the treasure. Who's the better man
at that? And now I resign by thunder. Elect whom you please to be your captain now. I'm done with
it. Silver, they cried. Barbecue forever. Barbecue for captain. So that's the tune as it cried the
George, I reckon you'll have to wait another turn friend and lucky for you as I'm not a revengeful
man, but that never was my way. And now shipmates, this black spot, taint much good now, is it?
Dick's crossed his luck and spoiled his Bible and that's about all.
It'll do to kiss the book on still, won't it? growled Dick, who was evidently uneasy at the
Bible with a bit cut out, returned Silver derisively. Not it. It won't buy no more in a
ballot book. Don't it though? cried Dick with a sort of joy. Well, I reckon that's worth having too.
Here Jim, here's a curiosity for you, said Silver and he tossed me the paper.
It was around the size of a crown piece. One side was blank for it had been the last leaf.
The other contained a verse or two of Revelation. These words among the rest which struck sharply
home upon my mind. Without are dogs and murderers. The printed side had been blackened with wood ash
which already began to come off and soil my fingers. On the blank side had been written
with the same material the one word deposed. I had that curiosity beside me at this moment,
but not a trace of writing now remains beyond a single scratch such as a man might make with
his thumbnail. That was the end of the night's business. Soon after with a drink all round we
lay down to sleep and the outside of Silver's vengeance was to put George Mary up for sentinel
and threaten him with death if he should prove unfaithful. It was long ere I could close an eye
and heaven knows I had matter enough for thought in the man whom I had slain that afternoon
in my most perilous position and above all in the remarkable game that I saw Silver now engaged upon
keeping the mutineers together with one hand and grasping with the other after every means
possible and impossible to make his peace and save his miserable life. He himself slept peacefully
and snored aloud yet my heart was sore for him, wicked as he was, to think on the dark perils
that environed and the shameful gibbet that awaited him. End of chapter 29